The railway reservation system is expected to carry out tasks as a manual railway management system. The system is expected to store trains of different routes along with price and other details. The user can easily select the route he/she wants and get the list of the train and price. Only the admin is entrusted the rights to add train details and view no of trains booked as well as the no of users in the system profiles that book tickets. After the ticket is booked it can be printed and saved as a proof verification.

The project development began by analyzing the problem statement and finding the exact requirements. Then a design was done in a manner so as to address the required solution and to properly modularize the components of the target system. Functionalities of the system were broken down into functions and sub-functions. The modules then were implemented and unit tested independently. After modules were developed, they were integrated in an incremental manner. Integration testing was performed to check for presence of anomalies in the partial product hence formed. System testing was performed after development of the complete system to further enquire whether any errors were present. After the system testing phase, a product hence has been developed which has satisfied all the functional requirements previously expected. Moreover, the product also has fulfilled few of the non-functional requirements, for example: usability, performance etc.

The Railway Reservation System was tested for potential defects. During black box testing, the domain of inputs were analyzed and tested. During white box testing, the product has been tested for its behavior in case of unexpected events. For instance, the product was refined in order to prevent crashes if it loses database connectivity during processing. The product was developed in a single threaded operational manner. So errors frequently incurred during multithreaded operations were expected to a minimum. The sequence of operations was tested for smooth flow of the program. The source code was refined after white box testing to avoid input data type mismatch errors commonly incurred after the early system development. Database operational efficiency was tested and transactions were reduced to a minimal degree in order to avoid transaction delays and the resultant failures that follow it.

The Railway Reservation System has been developed with a software engineering oriented approach in mind. The software hence developed has undergone alpha testing in order to determine the usability of the software. Furthermore, the software is expected to be engaged in acceptance testing in near future. The software can aid to managing the trains and as well as booking the tickets and managing the user details also. The software can automatically allocate the seat no and can automatically print the ticket along with all basic necessary details. Also the software allow to reducing time and improving accuracy and reliability at the same moment. Furthermore, the design of the software has been done with concern for scope of further improvement and additional features, should there be any need.